Project: Assignment 4: Frogger, Part 2
Author: Jake Lipson
Modified on: 3/16/13
Date: 2/14/13
Files: index.html, style.css, game.js, assets/frogger_sprites.png, assets/dead_frog.png,
       assets/jumpSound.m4a, assets/deathSound.m4a

Description: An HTML file, a stylesheet, and a JavaScript file use pre-created sprites to build a recreation of the game "Frogger". JavaScript is used to run the game, which draws all images on the HTML canvas. The game runs in a main loop of updating and drawing the games many variables, all of which are stored in an object 'vars'. One frame of time is 1000/60, which is the interval used with mainloop.

The game functions as it was originally designed. Frogger moves up, down, left, and right to navigate between cars and onto logs over water to one of five lily pads at the end of the canvas. Frogger will die should he get in the way of a car, miss a log and drown, allow himself to be carried offscreen, or jump in the bushes near the lily pads. Frogger has five lives in this version, and earns a score for his accomplishments. He must also reach the lily pads within 30 seconds. Full game rules can be found at http://www.20goto10.co.uk/frogger/instructions.html.

All five basic requirements of this assignment have been implemented correctly. The game loads immediately on page load, and also includes the bonus (not one of Ming's bonuses, just a nice easter egg) feature of a restart option without a page refresh displayed at game over. Frogger moves in all four directions as required, but will not move outside the boundaries of the game field, and will not move onto an already occupied lily pad. Vehicles and logs have been animated and travel both left and right at different speeds. Collision detection functions appropriately and while this can always be improved, the current collision detection (using bounding box collision detection) has been deemed perfectly acceptable for this assignment. Game scoring has been added for basic and additional accomplishments.

Additional implementations #1, #2, #3, and #6 were selected for this game recreation. A timer has been implemented and counts back from 30. At 0, Frogger dies and a life is lost. If Frogger reaches a lily pad before 0, 10 points are awarded for each second remaining. Frogger is animated to assets/dead_frog.png if he dies, and the animation is held for a full second before Frogger is revived or the game over message is displayed. Game audio has been added in the form of sound effects when Frogger moves in any direction, or when he dies. These two sound effects were ripped from www.playfrogger.com, and audio files have been stored in the assets folder. The final additional implementation is the incorporation of a fly into the game. The fly appears every thirty seconds, or thirty seconds since he has last been seen (to account for being eaten) for thirty second intervals. Eating the fly earns the player 200 points. The fly will appear only on an unoccupied lily pad, which is determined at random.

All selected aspects of the assignment have been correctly implemented. The code for this assignment includes 47 functions, each of which has been designed to perform only one task. Documentation is present in the code and a .gitignore file is present in the repository. Collaboration with McCall Bliss and Brett Fischler was needed to help me better understand the gitignore file. Twenty hours were spent on this assignment. Two tokens (#2 & #3) were used on this assignment.